README.md, before:

# finger-spelling-text

Convolutional Neural Network that inputs and classifies photos of fingerspelling in American Sign Language.

Summaries of file contents are as follows:


## Notebook 0: Exploration


Demonstrating CNN use with The ASL MNIST Dataset and a simple neural network

Improvement paths from starting model

Optimizing hyperparameters via grid search (useful for smaller CNN's)

Implementing Data: ASL Alphabet

Training with Validation

Test with Larger Images

Creating a single photo of my hand signing 'A' for demo purposes

Transfer Learning

Removing a dense layer to reduce overfitting and increase fitting speed.

Photo Predictions


## Notebook 1: Current Working Setup

![template from drawio](readme_images/project_map.png?raw=true)


Importing Data

CNN Model

Making Methods

Interaction


## model_3_0

Current trained model for image recognition tasks.


## Hand Photography OpenCV2 hand-photography-opencv2.ipynb

Planning scripts to capture hand photos from webcam.

-----------------


## Installation instructions for the anaconda environment needed:


(open an anaconda prompt and run these lines, one at a time)


conda create -n fingerspelling

conda activate fingerspelling

conda install numpy pandas matplotlib jupyter jupyterlab seaborn

pip install tensorflow==2.4


## Launch instructions


(in order to open a notebook in this environment, open an anaconda prompt
and run these lines, one at a time. This will open jupyter notebook in a
tab of your computer's default browser.)


activate fingerspelling

jupyter notebook

Commit message:

update readme, rename opencv2 photo notebook, add notebook 3

README.md, after:

# finger-spelling-text

Convolutional Neural Network that inputs and classifies photos of fingerspelling in American Sign Language.

Summaries of file contents are as follows:


## Notebook 0: Exploration


Demonstrating CNN use with The ASL MNIST Dataset and a simple neural network

### Table of Contents

Improvement paths from starting model

Optimizing hyperparameters via grid search (useful for smaller CNN's)

Implementing Data: ASL Alphabet

Training with Validation

Test with Larger Images

Creating a single photo of my hand signing 'A' for demo purposes

Transfer Learning

Removing a dense layer to reduce overfitting and increase fitting speed.

Photo Predictions


## Notebook 1: Current Working Setup

![template from drawio](readme_images/project_map.png?raw=true)

### Table of Contents

Importing Data

CNN Model

Making Methods

Interaction


## model_3_0

Current trained model for image recognition tasks.


## Notebook 2: Exploring Hand Photography with opencv2

Planning scripts to capture hand photos from webcam.

### Table of Contents

Opening an image with cv2 and optionally saving

Capturing an image from my laptop camera

Capturing an image of just my hands via cropping, for now

Foreground detection

Cropping based on hand presence


## Notebook 3: Exploring Model Improvements and Training Models

Earlier models were not deterministic, were difficult to test, and were consistently found lacking when used. 
This notebook will attempt to produce improved models given these concerns.


-----------------


## Installation instructions for the anaconda environment needed:


(open an anaconda prompt and run these lines, one at a time)


conda create -n fingerspelling

conda activate fingerspelling

conda install numpy pandas matplotlib jupyter jupyterlab seaborn

pip install tensorflow==2.4


## Launch instructions


(in order to open a notebook in this environment, open an anaconda prompt
and run these lines, one at a time. This will open jupyter notebook in a
tab of your computer's default browser.)


activate fingerspelling

jupyter notebook
